# Elegant PS and SoP

**ElegantPSoP** is an enhanced version of [EasierPS & EasierSoP](https://github.com/DaizeDong/Easier-PS-and-SoP) and [EasyPS](https://github.com/salfaris/EasyPS), featuring improved display and extended functionality. This project provides simple and elegant [LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/get/) templates for managing Personal Statements (PS) and Statements of Purpose (SoP) across multiple graduate school applications, offering a clean and organized way to handle multiple essays.

[An example of SoP](example/uni1_SoP.pdf)

### Table of contents

- [Elegant PS and SoP](#elegant-ps-and-sop)
    - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Examples](#examples)
  - [New Features](#new-features)

## Usage

The project contains one integrated template (which can be used for **PS** & **SoP**). 

1. Go to the `ElegantPSoP` directory and open `main.tex`.

2. Change these variables accordingly:

   ```latex
   % --- ESSAY DISPLAY SETTINGS ---
   \SetStudentName{<yourname>}           % Your name
   
   % --- CONTENT INPUT FILES --- 
   \SetUniContentPath{content/<inputfile>} % Path to the input file <inputfile>.tex
   ```

3. Open the `ElegantPSoP` directory and create the `<inputfile>.tex` files as specified by  `\SetUniContentPath{...}`. Then set the variables and write your application document accordingly: 

    ```latex
    \SetDocTitle{Your Document Title Here} 
    \SetProgramName{Program Name Here} 
    \SetUniversityName{University Name Here}  
    \SetUniversityAbbr{UniAbbr} 

    Write your document here. 
    ```
    Each input file corresponds to a PS or SoP for a university program.
    
4. To reference your papers, just add the according **BibLaTeX** citations in `ElegantPSoP/ref.bib`.

5. Build your `.pdf` file as usual. 

## Examples

For reference, I provided an `example.tex` file for two universities (adapted from EasierPS and EasierSoP, generated by [ChatGPT-4o](https://chatgpt.com/), featuring the fictional character SpongeBob SquarePants). This example demonstrates how the templates work with illustrative content. You can compile these files to view the output and better organize your own file structure.

## New Features

- Added support for both the Statement of Purpose (SoP) and the Personal Statement (PS) in a single template. 
- Fixed the bug where the first page was displayed incorrectly in [EasierPS & EasierSoP](https://github.com/DaizeDong/Easier-PS-and-SoP).
- Added support for BibLaTeX citations. 
- Included detailed annotations for easy understanding and customization.
- Enhanced the display with improvements in fonts, titles, and references.


